# WarehousePG Database Security Configuration Guide 

This guide describes how to secure a WarehousePG Database system. The guide assumes knowledge of Linux/UNIX system administration and database management systems. Familiarity with structured query language \(SQL\) is helpful.

> **Important** Because WarehousePG is based on PostgreSQL, certain commercial security scanning software, when trying to identify WarehousePG Database vulnerabilities, may use a PostgreSQL database profile. The reports generated by these tools can produce misleading results, and cannot be trusted as an accurate assessment of vulnerabilities that may exist in WarehousePG.

Because WarehousePG Database is based on PostgreSQL 9.4, this guide assumes some familiarity with PostgreSQL. References to [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/index.html) are provided throughout this guide for features that are similar to those in WarehousePG Database.

This information is intended for system administrators responsible for administering a WarehousePG Database system.

-   **[Securing the Database](securing_whpg.html)**  
Introduces WarehousePG Database security topics.
-   **[WarehousePG Database Ports and Protocols](ports_and_protocols.html)**  
Lists network ports and protocols used within the WarehousePG cluster.
-   **[Configuring Client Authentication](authentication.html)**  
Describes the available methods for authenticating WarehousePG Database clients.
-   **[Configuring Database Authorization](authorization.html)**  
Describes how to restrict authorization access to database data at the user level by using roles and permissions.
-   **[Auditing](auditing.html)**  
Describes WarehousePG Database events that are logged and should be monitored to detect security threats.
-   **[Encrypting Data and Database Connections](encryption.html)**  
Describes how to encrypt data at rest in the database or in transit over the network, to protect from eavesdroppers or man-in-the-middle attacks.
-   **[Security Best Practices](best_practices.html)**  
Describes basic security best practices that you should follow to ensure the highest level of system security. 

## <a id="endpoint_security"></a>About Endpoint Security Software

If you install any endpoint security software on your WarehousePG Database hosts, such as anti-virus, data protection, network security, or other security related software, the additional CPU, IO, network or memory load can interfere with WarehousePG Database operations and may affect database performance and stability.

Refer to your endpoint security vendor and perform careful testing in a non-production environment to ensure it does not have any negative impact on WarehousePG Database operations.

